# CLIFF

<b>Collaborative Learning using Fuzzy Inferencing (CLIFF! Yes that's not how acronyms work, but I'm going with it) is an exploration of using cascaded types of fuzzy logic with potentially the addition on genetic algorithm methods in learning applications. This specific application is a coach that must use a lot of situational awareness and some level of AI creativity (the fun part!) to re-program its team of players in a game of PONG. The players in this case are based on the team I created in FLIP for both singles and doubles.

I think it would be really interesting once this is up and running to use performance metrics such as time to goal, game length, volley lengths, score, etc. to do a comparative analysis of the team created by the cascaded CLIFF system to a team that has been optimized by a genetic algorithm. I haven't seen anything like this done before, so it would be really cool! Plus it would provide some level of understanding to the potential benefits of incorporating type-2 fuzzy logic in systems (since technically a GA tuned FLIP would be a type-1 genetic fuzzy algorithm). Stay tuned!

<h2>Abstract</h2>
There are a growing number of aerospace applications demonstrating the effectiveness of emulating human decision making with fuzzy logic. This overall project includes an investigation of the benefits of type-1 and type-2 fuzzy logic, as well as creation of the framework for a fuzzy system that can adapt to a situation using one of the two aforementioned fuzzy logic types in the form of a fuzzy robotic coach. This coach would the ability to better its team in a previously created fuzzy MATLAB game of PONG based upon its ability to adapt and learn from its opponent. In this effort, through extensive studying and understanding of type-2 fuzzy theory, a type-2 fuzzy logic toolbox was developed in the MATLAB environment. This system was compared to a benchmark problem, which raised the question of type-2 logic effectiveness, however, as a created type-1 system showed better results than any results in the paper. Therefore due to type-2 systems being more computationally heavy, and difficult to program, it was concluded that cascading type-1 logic may be more suitable than type-2 logic in certain control applications. A framework for implementing the type-2 fuzzy logic system was also created, outlining how type-2 fuzzy logic could be cascaded to create an intelligent coach. 

Overall, the developments of intelligence and learning within this project should prove to be an interesting stepping stone towards highly capable robots with the ability to learn from their environment; something that would be extremely helpful in disaster recovery, space exploration and military applications.


<i>The code for CLIFF is being cleaned, organized, and will be uploaded shortly!</i>
